= ONLYOFFICE Redmine plugin

This plugin enables users to edit office documents from Redmine using ONLYOFFICE Docs packaged as Document Server - Community or Enterprise
Edition.

== Features
* Create and edit text documents, spreadsheets, and presentations.
* Co-edit documents in real-time: use two co-editing modes (Fast and Strict), Track Changes, comments, and built-in chat.

Supported formats:

* For viewing and editing: DOCX, XLSX, PPTX.
* For converting to Office Open XML: ODT, ODP, ODS, DOC, XLS, PPT.

== Installing ONLYOFFICE Docs

You will need an instance of ONLYOFFICE Docs (Document Server) that is resolvable and connectable both from Redmine and any end clients. ONLYOFFICE Document Server must also be able to POST to Redmine directly.

You can install free Community version of ONLYOFFICE Docs or scalable Enterprise Edition with pro features.

To install free Community version, use Docker[https://github.com/onlyoffice/Docker-DocumentServer] (recommended) or follow these instructions[https://helpcenter.onlyoffice.com/installation/docs-community-install-ubuntu.aspx] for Debian, Ubuntu, or derivatives.

To install Enterprise Edition, follow instructions here[https://helpcenter.onlyoffice.com/installation/docs-enterprise-index.aspx].

Community Edition vs Enterprise Edition comparison can be found here.

== Installing ONLYOFFICE Redmine plugin

* steps

== How it works

The ONLYOFFICE integration follows the API documented here[https://api.onlyoffice.com/editors/basic]:


== ONLYOFFICE Docs editions

ONLYOFFICE offers different versions of its online document editors that can be deployed on your own servers.

* Community Edition (onlyoffice-documentserver package)
* Enterprise Edition (onlyoffice-documentserver-ee package)

The table below will help you make the right choice.


\* It's possible to add documents for comparison from your local drive and from URL. Adding files for comparison from storage is not available yet.

\** Support for all conditions and gradient. Adding/Editing capabilities are coming soon
